you're listening to kpfa and kpfb in
berkeley
listener sponsored radio for northern
california
our next program contains some frank
language
if this might distress you we suggest
you rejoin us in about 45 minutes at the
conclusion of this broadcast
it's a special bay area institute report
on the struggle between the united farm
workers and the international
brotherhood of
teamsters and the role of the nixon
administration in that conflict is
called conspiracy in the fields
in mid-april of this year when the
united farm workers three-year contracts
with grape growers had expired
the international brotherhood of
teamsters met secretly in palm springs
without the knowledge or consent of any
of the workers in the field
negotiated new four-year agreements with
about 15 growers in the coachella valley
since then 75 of the grape growers in
that area
as well as around the bakersfield area
have signed contracts with the teamsters
this is only the latest in a whole
series of efforts
going back to the early 1960s to
undermine the ufw
but this latest effort is apparently the
most serious
attack yet against the union the united
farm workers strongest membership base
is among the 60 000 unionized grape
field workers
of the san joaquin and coachella valleys
and that base is now in jeopardy
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
wow
[Music]
i am marty gellen from the bay area
institute
and this is a special bay area institute
report
of united farm workers teamsters battle
we are going to look at what's at stake
in that struggle
but also examine the significance of
this conflict for national politics
[Music]
today
american agribusiness has resorted to
every possible weapon short of massive
fire power
to rid itself of the united farm workers
not only have the growers used the
pentagon's enormous procurement system
manipulated state legislatures and
electoral procedures
and brought the legal pressures of the
courts to bear
but they have enlisted the aid of the
nation's largest and most powerful union
as well
the international brotherhood of
teamsters the first time they made an
effort to
come in and bust our union was in 1966
fred ross
united farm workers organizer the giant
di giorgio
corporation farms invited the teenagers
to come in and
participate in an election
to find out the representation of the
farm workers in those ranches there were
two elections
one we were given only 24-hour notice
of an election our members and our
supporters boycotted that first election
because it was in gross violation of
good faith negotiations that had gone on
so the governor brown called on ronald
halton from wayne state university to
come out and investigate what
occurred his findings
concluded that there were some
very unusual occurrences as far as the
balloting and the
whole election procedure he urged
another another election so in august of
at the sierra vista ranch there was the
first recognized election in farm labor
history
and the vote was uh official vote was
something like 530 to 330
in favor of farmworkers union there was
a
another election at the jojo ranch about
two months later
but by then the teamsters had had backed
off
they didn't participate in the in the
next election
but at the same time in the same year 66
some the workers at the pirelli minetti
ranch
walked out on strike came to our union
asked for support
and behind the strike lines the
teamsters signed the first of what would
be many
sweetheart agreements what is a
sweetheart agreement
well two things one an agreement that's
signed between employer and union
where the workers are not consulted at
all and two
and primarily because of this lack of
communication between
the workers and the union the terms of
the agreement are
very inferior whether it's wage
working additions job security medical
plan
hiring hall so
we had to boycott the products of
preliminary for about eight months
and finally there was the mediation and
the they turned the contract over to us
and it was the first of several
jurisdictional agreements were signed at
that time
where the farmworkers union agreed not
to go into the canneries
packing sheds or the truckers and the
teamsters
respected our right to organize all
field workers
so we had relative peace for three years
from 67 until
70 we finally won the great boycott and
a great strike
and as soon as we had won in delano
almost simultaneously we heard news from
the salinas valley
that the teenagers had signed about 170
sweetheart agreements with the lettuce
industry
do the teamsters want why do they time
and time again violate the
jurisdictional agreements
which they have signed with the ufw and
try to push the ufw
out of the fields there are several
reasons
but the most important among them are
intra-union politics
and money
there are several things involved one we
believe is a
personal ambition on the part of william
grammy who's the director of organizing
for the teamsters
i think he would like to be somebody the
head of the teamsters internationally
this is one major stepping stone if you
can stop chavez in the pharmacy movement
the other is the question of their
canneries they're very weak in the
canneries
they have contracts there but the
membership
especially the minority membership black
and brown
is unhappy with the way the teachers are
operating
the teams want to have control of the
field so they can
be assured no strikes so that their
membership mechanics can have
steady work without having to worry
about work stoppages and strikes in the
fields
the other thing is that they they know
that
mechanization is on its way in
agriculture so
they're hoping to be able to take
control of that
there is money involved in that if they
take a dive for example
on when and how machines are introduced
one the growers will pay the teamsters
and two the workers
will be the ones to suffer they don't
have a strong union there to back them
up to
to fight for against that issue
then it's going to come overnight and
the workers will be happening
but what happened to workers here will
happen same thing that occurred to
the cotton workers in texas 25 30 years
ago overnight they were without jobs it
wasn't because of the union it was
because machines were introduced and
they had no protection the issue of
automation is strategic anticipating an
end to an era of cheap labor
growers have been racing to mechanize
before they are forced to operate
under the restrictions of union
contracts
the united states department of
agriculture has predicted
that between 1968 and 1975
more than 800 000 jobs in agriculture
will be destroyed by automation
currently federal job training and
placement programs for rural workers
are ineffective and underfunded one
objective of the ufw
has been to deal with these problems so
that farm workers aren't just thrown out
into the garbage dump of the big city
ghettos
but if they can't stop unionization then
growers
obviously would prefer a union they know
will be amenable to their views
and the needs of businessmen
we know that one of the reasons the
teachers are preferred by the growers
is because they know they can make any
number of deals under the table
that you and i will probably never find
out about but because they're both
called businessmen they can get along
in any number of ways their first
contract they were signed was with the
company called blood antle
1961 this was a large
lettuce producer who was in debt
time bad financial need he borrowed a
million dollars from the teenagers
at the same time they signed a contract
the teachers ensured him that he could
continue to use brass arrows
they backed the bracero program the
government program in the early 60s and
50s
where mexicans were brought across the
border like almost like
slaves up until the beginning of 1973
it appeared as if the united farm
workers were winning the race against
the machines
upon its grape victory in 1970 the ufw
went out to organize the lettuce melon
and citrus workers in california and
arizona
and the citrus and vegetable workers in
florida
one hundred and seventy thousand
seasonal and migrant workers tend the
fields of florida
almost sixty percent are black and
thirty percent chicano and puerto rican
the campaign in florida is a test of the
union's ability
to appeal to farm laborers outside of
the chicano and filipino rank and file
it's successfully organized in
california
this is a critical test if the union is
to eventually
move into a national position of
leadership among farm workers
the ufw's first target in florida was
minute maid
a subsidiary of coca-cola koch knuckled
under to the union after threats of a
national boycott
next the union laid attack to the sugar
plantations of florida
on the ufw list were other citrus farms
owned by large national corporations
like craft company
nestle's royal crown cola and likes
brothers
so it appeared in 1972 as if the farm
labor struggle was being nationalized
not only was the ufw carrying their
struggle
outside of california to the other big
farm states of florida
arizona and texas but the growers
organized nationally to stop them
by launching lobbying campaigns in over
20 key agricultural states
for legislation that would ban the
secondary boycott
and strikes at harvest time the law
passed by the arizona state legislature
last year
which made it illegal to say the words
boycott lettuce
was just one example of their lobbying
effort proposition 22
in california was another but with the
exception of arizona
the lobbying campaign has so far proved
unsuccessful
more drastic measures were needed the
growers had to stop the ufw
at any cost yeah we think that what's
happening is that
there's an overall plan to try and
destroy our union and i'd point to two
things one the uh
the grape contracts we've had contracts
the last three years with all those
coachella valley growers
and less than 12 hours after the
contract expired the growers and
teamsters had a joint press conference
to announce that they had reached
contract agreements
and then just two weeks or 10 days ago
bob gallo of gallo wines announced that
the teamsters
i told him they represented the majority
of his workers and he was entering
serious negotiations with him
well this is very unusual we've had a
good relations with that grower for the
last seven years
contact's been good and everything else
and
all of a sudden overnight you know they
decided that all the teams were
representing workers
but nobody's talking about an election
no one has agreed to have an election so
if they were serious about that issue
they would have any problem with with uh
submitting to an election
so i think it's it's more than just a
coincidence that these things are
happening
uh the lamonde arvin growers the next
grape growing area
near bakersfield signed up all teamsters
and now the big question is whether the
delano bunch
uh jamar and the other growers who held
out for so long
whether or not they will go teamstream
but i think it's uh it is a plan
i would say the teamsters union
certainly can't be accused of attempting
to destroy the ufw
jim hansen teamsters union
representative
salinas california that's a task which
the ufw is handling quite well as well
the fact is that if the ufw had done the
proper job during the past three years
when i represented the workers we
wouldn't be representing the people
today
back in february 4 200
people out of the sitting season
workforce of 5 000
at that time signed petitions asking
us to represent them they were
dissatisfied with the ufw
for a number of reasons primarily the
hiring hall
practices which they felt were
discriminatory it was after
hearing these statements and after
talking with the people
receiving the petitions that we began to
argue
if there is any conspiracy it
uh is within the fw because i think
that the ufw has conspired to [ __ ]
the harvest of the grapes
in california by using demonstrators
imported from other areas and moved
freely throughout the state
the workers aren't on strike they are
harvesting the crops
so in truth there is no strike only
massive demonstrations of people who
were not working in the
fields before is there a conspiracy
afoot to crush the united farm workers
since this is the year when conspiracies
end and begin in the white house
perhaps it is there we must look to find
the answer
there are indications one next on record
uh
25 years ago or a little longer
he helped set up his own career as a
congressman
by participating in red baiting
committee hearings up in the delano area
in bakersfield
the first the georgia strike his
attitude in 1968
eating grapes publicly in the middle of
our boycott making the untrue
statement the boycott was illegal when
he knew very well as a lawyer
that it was perfectly legal for former
christian boycott
it's our understanding that a high
administration official urged frankly
timmins to come speak to the american
farm bureau convention
in december and he
proposed an alliance with with the farm
bureau the most right-wing reactionary
farm group in the country
and what's happened ever since then is
that
the teamsters have been signing up
contract after contract
uh mainly with growers with whom we had
contracts before
and then they renegotiated the contracts
the lettuce industry
riding high on the wave of his november
1972 election victory
richard nixon held a meeting in san
clemente with frank fitzsimmons
and several white house aides what
transpired at that meeting
was never made public but less than a
week later
on december 12 1972 fitzsimmons went to
los
angeles to address the american farm
bureau federation
which was holding its annual convention
the american farm bureau federation is
not only a lobbying organization for the
nation's farmers
it is also a wide-ranging empire with
sales and assets
as large as those of shell oils it does
a four billion dollar business in life
insurance
mutual funds oil fertilizers and real
estate
every year its members include the bank
of america
kern county land company hunts foods
foremost dairies del monte the giorgio
corporation
teneco and safeway it is considered to
be
one of the most conservative trade
organizations in the entire world
fitzsimmons opened his speech to the
farm bureau with a rather cryptic
allusion to his real purposes
at the expense of sounding like a poker
player who wants a stacked deck
before he ante's up fitzsimmons began
let me say that i am happy to be with
you here today
he then urged the farm bureau members to
change their outmoded views
and accept unionization of farm workers
however he denounced the ufw describing
it as
a revolutionary movement that is
perpetuating a fraud on the american
public
finally fitzsimmons proposed an alliance
between the teamsters and the farm
bureau
we in organized labor he proclaimed
welcome an alliance with farmers
especially when that alliance
works for the mutual benefit of the farm
workers
and his employers immediately after this
speech
the teamsters renegotiated their
unexpired sweetheart contracts
with lettuce growers in salinas and in
april
the sweetheart contracts with grape
growers were signed
one other person who attended the san
clemente meeting
in early december was a man named
charles
coulson charles colston who
was formerly the nixon chief counsel or
one of his main councils
and who has been called the architect of
nixon's labor plan
and of course with simmons endorsenic
synonym anywhere from
four to six hundred thousand dollars was
raised by the teamsters for the nixon
campaign fund this coupled with the fact
that
that coulson is now the chief counsel
for the teamsters union
leads us to believe that there's more
than a casual relationship there
and the hatred of the teenagers for our
union
and nixon strong opposition that passed
we think there's a definite conspiracy
going on
[Music]
charles colson was richard nixon's
coordinator
of appointments he made sure the right
people were appointed to the right
positions
in simple language he was the key man
who made sure
that business dominated government
was also nixon's dirty tricks man
in this capacity he brought e howard
hunt into the white house staff
and is alleged to have personally
ordered the fake state department cables
in 1971
linking the kennedy administration with
the dm assassination in south vietnam in
1963.
in addition he engineered the phone
calls telegrams and newspaper ads
which nixon pointed to in 1970 as tokens
of support
for his cambodian invasion finally
coulson was responsible for composing
and keeping the famous white house
enemies list the existence of which john
dean revealed
during watergate testimony two weeks ago
as fred ross has pointed out colson was
also the architect of nixon's labor
policies
during 1971 and 1972.
it was colson who first proposed that
nixon commute the prison sentence of
jimmy hoffa
in 71. it was also colson who solicited
fitzsimmons
for the large campaign contributions
which the teamster
union officials gave to nixon's 1972
election extravaganza
coincidentally just after that december
meeting
following the november election and
three days before fitzsimmons spoke to
the american farm bureau federation
the teamsters announced that they had
decided to switch their legal business
from the firm of williams connolly and
califano
a washington law firm with strong
democratic party ties
to maureen dickstein shapiro and
galligan
a washington law firm with strong
republican party ties
two senior members of williams connolly
in califano
were at that time handling the civil
suit which the democratic party had
brought against leading republican party
figures
for the watergate break-in but more
significant was the fact
made public that day that coulson would
join
maureen dickstein shapiro and galligan
in march after
he resigned from his position on the
white house staff
charles coulson who was one of nixon's
closest
political confidants and a strong nixon
loyalist
would now also be the chief counsel for
frankfurt simmons and the teamsters
union
most washington observers agreed that
this reflected
the close political ties which have
developed between nixon and the
teamsters
was the plan to crush the farm workers
laid out at the san clemente meeting in
early december
last year was charles coulson's
appointment
as teamster council part of that deal
is there a conspiracy afoot to crush the
ufw
we cannot indicate a real answer to
these questions
but we do not have all the evidence
however
it is important to note that in
situations like these
the president may not only be acting out
of general policy considerations
like keeping unions out of agriculture
and isolating militant labor
organizations
but also acting in the interests of his
closest friends
one such friend was william d pauley an
old member of the china lobby
one of the founders of the flying tiger
airlines and owner of the talisman sugar
company in florida
which has been struck by the ufw for
over a year now
another close friend perhaps the closest
after bibi raboso is c arnold smith
president of the u.s national bank in
san diego
and one of the largest land holders in
the central valley of california
is westgate california corporation
lowell bergman
journalist san diego which is a
conglomerate he put together with
his former shoeshine boy john alicio in
the early 60s
uh owns a number of land syndicates
directly these land syndicates are uh
tax dodgers in the in the san joaquin
valley that were set up
to both collect subsidies and or
to show a loss so that they could write
off tax money on these land holdings
but uh indirectly if you want to call it
that
smith is the largest single
personal land holder in in the san
joaquin valley
uh for instance well the major
the major instance in this case is
through a man named hollis roberts
in 1965 hollis robert's
net value was put at 40 000 and
he looked like he was very close to
bankruptcy he couldn't get credit
anywhere for his uh
his uh his land operation which is
called roberts farms
in 1968 hollis roberts that
in assessed value was somewhere close to
125 million dollars
with 130 000 acres of land he was
appointed in 1968 by richard nixon as an
advisor on agricultural policy
and the transformation of hollis roberts
from near bankruptcy to
economic vigor we want to call it that
even though no no other bank than one
bank would give him a loan
that one bank being the us national bank
controlled by smith
took place because well in a pattern
that smith has followed before that is
to pick up someone who is close to
bankruptcy and use them as a front for
his operations
and so through uh roberts roberts farms
jasmine groves walnut groves and so on
various syndicates
smith has become a major land operator
and is presently his fault he can i
think he employs
uh the moment 2500 farm workers in
kern county in the coachella valley and
they have
widespread interests throughout the san
joaquin valley
but see arnold smith is much more
through his conglomerate
westgate corporation smith has a virtual
monopoly
on ground support transportation for
airports and on helicopter service
throughout california nevada arizona new
mexico
and other sections of the western united
states he also owns trucking companies
several shuttle bus systems and a number
of cab companies
but see arnold smith represents much
more than even this
for he is a key financial agent and
close ally
of the teamsters union if you talk about
senior old smith you have to talk about
san diego san diego county and san diego
city of san diego
and what's happened in san diego is
that the place has grown phenomenally in
the last 25 30
years since the second world war smith
who is one of them
through his united states national bank
and the westgate california corporation
is the dominant
uh financier in the area
he's been called mr san diego of the
century
by the local newspapers and others in
the city
one of the major sources of
suburban and
upper class vacation resorts in san
diego is not just a bank but the
teamsters pension fund
the fund the central and south with west
states pension fund which
various riders and investigators have
also called a
treasure chest for organized crime i
should point out i guess as a
like a footnote that the teamsters
pension fund the nature of their
investments
the reason why they're always been
suspect so most pension funds
uh for instance the western conference
pension plan under the teamsters which
is separate from
the central states fund we're talking
about and somewhat smaller
has their fund administered through
stodgy insurance executives and
prudential life insurance company
a pension fund is supposed to be
administered in a very conservative
fashion so that it doesn't get blown in
an investment
gambled away essentially hoffa
introduced the policy
of using a pension fund for his personal
interest
for his own desire for power
and it's that pattern that suspect you
know it's that gambling
um aspect of it that
has made the pension fund suspect and
then and even make it more ironic it's
that
the fund itself has been used to finance
organized gambling
in the united states and internationally
and in cuba and in the bahamas
usually when you see a teamsters pension
fund back
in active in an area the central states
fund
you can also find members of
people who have been identified as
leaders of organized crime in the area
now the interest that cyril smith would
have in this would you say
at first would be circumstantial he just
happens to live in the same town
however uh there have been
various people inside the bank and
elsewhere who have said that
to me in interviews and others that
other forms that the bank the united
states national bank
handles pension fund loans
and distribution now there is a present
no
piece of paper document loan form that
you can
point to or grab a hold of to say that
this is what's been going
on that there have been uh finders fees
paid to the bank or members of the bank
for investments that they have found for
the fund
um that there have been kickbacks for
instance
although there's a quite especially
right now there are quite a few rumors
about it and
investigations going on trying to find
out the bank itself
even according to the wall street
journal is one of the most adept in the
country at hiding
its assets and how it operates smith has
maintained uh maintained until three
years ago until he was first
at first exposed in san diego county
absolute control over the county and
because of that kind of control that he
had a very right-wing
uh patriotic front um
he he provided a uh a
base or no uh well an investment
opportunity
for people like the teamsters pension
fund so you find
anywhere estimates vary from 250 million
to 350 million dollars or maybe even
more
of teams for pension fund money in san
diego county
operating not in
developing low-cost housing or not in
developing
public works for the people of san diego
or for the workers
themselves building a hospital or
whatever
you find it in places like rancho
lacosta maybe following the
the watergate hearings and john dean
mentioned that
he and h.r haldeman and
erlichmann and various other people
would get together at rancho lacosta and
they would
talk about uh oh uh who to put on the
enemies list i don't know whatever they
were the cover-up of the
of the watergate burglary sometimes you
hear about rachel acosta if you open up
yesterday's uh san francisco chronicle
on
july 2nd and you'll see a big spread and
it says luxury war on fat
and they list an all whole list of movie
stars um
tv personalities johnny carson jack
women or
desire niz carol burnett
who go to this place called rancho
lacoste which is a health spa
rancho acosta is i think is about 30
miles from san clemente
south san francisco county
and it was formed as a land uh
development operation
in uh i believe in 1964.
there are houses on you know large plush
mansion type
houses and condominiums and so on on
this uh
spread it has a hell spa motel in the
middle of it and the golf course and
where there's varied you know national
pro golf tournaments and so on
and it ranks in amongst its organizers
as a corporation
um uh mo dalits
for 50 years the now i guess emeritus
head of the cleveland syndicate uh one
of the major operators in the building
of las vegas
with teamster pension fund money in las
vegas and as it turns out in
rancho lacosta 75 million dollars in
teamster pension fund money
uh dallas is an old friend of mine
lansky's
daiwitz was very close to jimmy hoffa
when hoffa was first starting out in the
teamsters and
that's been outlined in hank messick's
books on the team streets
[Music]
uh or just south of rancho lacoste i
mean this is part of a whole
series of developments that these people
have done in in san diego and they have
rancho lacoste in another place called
rancho los penasquitos and so on or
another man who lives at regular cost
his name is leonard burstin who was a
good friend of
fulgencio batistas
and has other progressive ties he was
involved in
[Music]
developments and teamster pension fund
activities around miami beach and key
biscayne and so on
who was a resident of rancho lacosta mr
burson i believe just got out of jail uh
after serving four months on a 40
million dollar
case involving a pension fund right now
and so you see the use of the teamsters
pension fund and essentially see arnold
smith's country
you know his area of the country what he
controls richard nixon's favorite city
san diego in in this fashion you know
in development of high society
health spas they can't open a casino
they would like to i'm sure
see arnold smith and richard nixon are
the best of friends
the relationship goes back a long way
throughout the years smith has been one
of nixon's most
loyal and most generous supporters
nixon in his turn has never let such
loyalty go unrewarded
and also if you talk about see arnold
smith and the teamsters
is a relationship a social relationship
a political relationship and a financial
relationship you also have to talk about
richard nixon
because smith also has that same
relationship with nixon and has had that
relationship since 1946.
smith was always proud of
saying that he was one of uh nixon's
earliest backers
back in 1946 he can't get much earlier
politically and
with nixon and
to his surprise i guess into nixon's
surprise nixon skyrocketed right as a
as a political investment in their 40s
and
wound up being vice president in 1952
um and smith and nixon have enjoyed like
a
personal relationship with the families
and so on
uh for 25 years uh in 1968 for instance
uh smith watched the election returns
with nixon
and we were in los angeles they were
watching smith was the first one on the
receiving line at the
inaugural wall in 1968 with his wife
helen alvarez his second wife
and um smith
it's estimated he raised anywhere from
three to five million dollars in 1968
alone in april of 1970 there was a grand
jury indictment
pending in san diego where the mayor and
the city council were indicted
and there was a federal grand jury
indictment pending in san diego for tax
evasion
and for many months it was unclear
whether these indictments would all come
out
[Music]
and they did well they didn't they
didn't
i shouldn't i shouldn't say they all did
they did because
information was leaked to various
underground papers and other people who
printed it what happened was in april
1970 that smith got on an airplane
when he knew that he couldn't hold these
indictments that much longer he got on
an airplane and he went to washington
and he went to see his friend in the
white house
smith's own president of the yellow cab
company in san diego has testified to
that
fact before a grand jury smith himself
denies it so it's his word against the
others and the
pertinent manifest and the airline is
missing
but it's pretty clear that smith did
make this trip
because the document does exist that
john dean iii then was right began
writing letters to
various law enforcement officials in san
diego
denying federal cooperation and allowing
very
an irs agent testify if you're following
the watergate the uh
dean was involved in this and also uh
jack
caulfield and the guy who testified at
the beginning of the year in super court
was involved in this particular deal
nixon and the teamsters are the best of
friends also
such a chummy relationship of course
includes a lot of other mutual friends
too numerous to speak of his connections
to the teamsters
are well known he has said many times
that that
frank fitzsimmons is always welcome in
the white house
he's said many times that that the
interests of the teamsters unions are is
his interest
and at the same time you know he doesn't
feel
any uh need to mention that uh the
teamsters pension fund controlled by mr
consummons informally by
ahafa are the major source of funds for
organized crime
investment in the united states and they
built most of las vegas
tank messick has pointed out and they um
are deeply involved in land deals
throughout the southern
half of the united states right
it's no secret i mean that's what you
know robert kennedy was always talking
about and uh
lots of people have written about it you
know talked about it and
nixon seems to figure it's fine i was
just looking at this
magazine
in overdrive magazine having to do with
like lacosta
the famous incident where fitzsimmons is
talking to people like
lou or anthony ricardo or marcia
kyfano various people who have been
involved in gambling and
resort development and identified
enormous members of
some kind of organized crime apparatus
in the united states
and there they are sitting with
frankfurt simmons and fitzsimmons gets
on the airplane
with uh nixon you know the same day
although we can just barely piece
together the whole scenario
it does seem as if a plan to crush the
united farm workers
was part of the wave of domestic
reaction which emanated
from the white house just following
richard nixon's election victory
in november of 1972
as attorney general john mitchell once
predicted
this country is going to go so far to
the right you won't even know it
the oeo was dismantled without legal
authority
and federal social spending was slashed
nixon began restructuring the office of
the presidency
and centralizing power way before the
basic legislation for the reorganization
had been sent to congress
housing programs were stopped by
executive mandate
and strong anti-labor legislation was
being prepared by the president
special white house controls on news and
the media were also under consideration
nixon's power block conservative
interests was coming into its own
i mean nixon is part of a group of
people you know a power block
some people describe it as an alliance
of
organized crime and right-wing
financiers and corrupt politicians and
uh various agencies of the government
i mean uh wings of the cia and so on
for instance uh using through a man like
c arnold smith
as his close friend nixon also controls
the uh
the attorney general of california evil
younger whose major financial
contributor was see arnold smith
now younger has a lot of jurisdiction in
terms of what's going on now with the
farm workers and i haven't heard the
farmworkers talking about
younger's fairness and he has a whole
bureau of investigation in sacramento
called cii
right under him right this is a sort of
mini fbi for california
i haven't heard of them being very
active in terms of investigating what
the teamsters are doing to the farm
workers or even vice versa
there has been no to my knowledge anyway
there has been no investigation by the
national labor relations board or anyone
into collusion
kickbacks or otherwise of the teamsters
and
the growers in terms of edging out the
farm workers
the farm workers you know are known as a
a union that struggles right
they carry picket signs and if you can
take john dean's
testimony as to what nixon thinks of
people who carry pickets
and especially pick at him but we're
opposed to him
then you can get some idea i think of
the way nixon views the foreign workers
[Music]
there's political enemies for sure and
they're the economic enemies of his
friends
and it's these also these interests that
we're talking about
who are opposed to groups like the farm
workers who are
responsible for what we have been people
have been calling over the last couple
of years the
domestic reaction in the united states
the quieting down of social protests the
increased repression
um the law enforcement administ
assistance administration and the money
that it's been dealing out
in billions of dollars now every year to
increase police surveillance and
armament and so on
the watergate investigations seem to
have temporarily halted this shift
towards the right
but many of the wheels set in motion
last november are still
churning away the federal budget for
fiscal 1974
which went into effect on july 1st
has still yet to be felt in its full
impact
but most visibly of all the united farm
workers are still battling the teamsters
in the coachella and san joaquin valleys
of california
that struggle has yet to be played out
to its conclusion
here in the bay area a strong rank and
file group has done a variety of things
they belief-hooded
truckers and plants they picketed
identifying themselves as teamsters at
safeway stores urging people to
to join the boycott of safeway to
support the farm workers
to oppose the policies of the simmons
they've sent delegations down to
the strike areas to show solidarity with
farmworkers
these are some of the things that
they've done we're very supporters
especially in the labor movement
the community supporters are invited to
caravan on july 21st
to delano we need we need people's help
on the boycott lines safe ways
the biggest buyer of grapes and lettuce
we need to kick their ass
and safeway is uh they are the growers
one of the big board of directors
uh we have a strike going against him
he's a grape grower j.g boswell
he's been on the government welfare
program for the last five years received
20 million dollars in subsidies
and so we know that they
they moved this thing will be over very
shortly
because they can get both they have
enough influence both the teachers and
the growers
to get our peaceful resolution through
this their ad was just a pr stunt
they've had an ad urging elections in
the fields full page added about 68
newspapers in california
uh but they have nothing they've done
nothing so far to back that up
so our lines are bigger lines that
safeway becomes more important
we need people's time and any way they
can help us we appreciate it
the farm workers you know are known as a
a union of struggles
right they carry picket signs and if you
can take john dean's testimony
as to what nixon thinks of people who
carry pickets
and especially pick at him but we're
opposed to him
and you can get some idea i think of the
way nixon views the foreign workers
there's political enemies for sure and
they're the economic enemies of his
[Music]
friends
god
[Music]
[Applause]
singing away
[Music]
miracles
the struggle goes on
you